README.md, before:

# Bayesrul

This is a library for the benchmark of uncertainty quantification methods (UQ) for deep learning (DL) in the context of the Remaining Useful Life (RUL) prognostics. We experiment with heteroscedastic neural networks (HNN), deep ensembles (DE), Monte Carlo dropout (MCD) and several Bayesian Neural Networks (BNN) techniques for variance reduction such as local reparametrization trick (LRT), Flipout (FO) and Radial Bayesian networks (RAD).

The dataset we use for the benchmark (N-CMAPSS) needs to be downloaded from the NASA prognostics website. Three deep neural networks are implemented with pytorch and pytorch-lightning and turned into BNN with pyro and TyXe. Hyperparameter search is implemented with Optuna. The library computes negative log-likelihood (NLL), root mean squared error (RMSE), root mean sqaured calibration error (RMSCE) and sharpness to evaluate aspects such model accuracy and quality of predictive uncertainty estimation. Plots and csv files are generated for analysis.

The library uses [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) for dependency management and [hydra](https://hydra.cc/docs/intro/) for configuration management. You need to install [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation) first to setup the project.
## Setup 

Clone the repository
```
git clone git@github.com:lbasora/bayesrul.git
cd bayesrul
```

Use poetry to install dependencies
```
poetry install
```
Rename file `.env.example` to `.env` and set `MY_VAR` to the bayesrul project folder.

## Using the library
The library uses hydra library and the conf files are in `bayesruls/conf/`.

This library is based on the template [lightning-hydra-template](https://github.com/ashleve/lightning-hydra-template). Please refer to its documentation for further details on the philosophy and use. 

The `scripts` subfolder contains examples on how to run the different functionalities. In the following, we document a few use cases.

#### Generate dataset lmdb files for N-CMAPSS
Make sure to have the downloaded N-CMAPSS files from NASA at `data/ncmapss/`
```
poetry run python -m bayesrul.tasks.build_ds
```
You can overload the options in the conf file  `bayesruls/conf/build_ds.yaml`

#### Hyperparameter search
Example with a HNN:
```
poetry run python -m bayesrul.tasks.hpsearch hpsearch=ncmapss_hnn task_name=hps_hnn
```

#### Model training and test

```
poetry run python -m bayesrul.tasks.train experiment=ncmapss_hnn task_name=train_hnn
```

For instance, if you want to execute 5 runs of the HNN model with different seeds by exploiting hydra multirun facility:

```
poetry run python -m bayesrul.tasks.train experiment=ncmapss_hnn seed=1,2,3,4,5 task_name=train_hnn --multirun
```

For the models you wish to keep, create inside the bayesrul project folder a results subfolder to copy the model checkpoints save in the hydra output folder (e.g. `/home/luis/repos/bayesrul/results/ncmapss/runs/HNN/0/checkpoints/`).

#### Model predictions
To generate the predictions with a model checkpoint:

```
poetry run python -m bayesrul.tasks.predict task_name=predict_hnn ckpt_path=/home/luis/repos/bayesrul/results/ncmapss/runs/HNN/0/checkpoints/epoch_326-step_311631.ckpt
```
To generate the predictions for all checkpoint in the results folder: 

```
poetry run python -m bayesrul.tasks.predict task_name=predict ckpt_path=all
```

#### Model evaluation
```
poetry run python -m bayesrul.tasks.metrics
```
#### Perfomance analysis
Inside the `notebooks` folder, the `plot_results.py` file is a Visual Code notebook with examples on how to analyse model performance from the predictions and metrics generated by `bayesrul.tasks.metrics`.

## References
TODO

Commit message:

Update README with reference to preprint

README.md, after:

# Bayesrul

This is a library for the benchmark of uncertainty quantification methods (UQ) for deep learning (DL) in the context of the Remaining Useful Life (RUL) prognostics. We experiment with heteroscedastic neural networks (HNN), deep ensembles (DE), Monte Carlo dropout (MCD) and several Bayesian Neural Networks (BNN) techniques for variance reduction such as local reparametrization trick (LRT), Flipout (FO) and Radial Bayesian networks (RAD).

The dataset we use for the benchmark (N-CMAPSS) needs to be downloaded from the NASA prognostics website. Three deep neural networks are implemented with pytorch and pytorch-lightning and turned into BNN with pyro and TyXe. Hyperparameter search is implemented with Optuna. The library computes negative log-likelihood (NLL), root mean squared error (RMSE), root mean sqaured calibration error (RMSCE) and sharpness to evaluate aspects such model accuracy and quality of predictive uncertainty estimation. Plots and csv files are generated for analysis.

The library uses [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) for dependency management and [hydra](https://hydra.cc/docs/intro/) for configuration management. You need to install [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation) first to setup the project.
## Setup 

Clone the repository
```
git clone git@github.com:lbasora/bayesrul.git
cd bayesrul
```

Use poetry to install dependencies
```
poetry install
```
Rename file `.env.example` to `.env` and set `MY_VAR` to the bayesrul project folder.

## Using the library
The library uses hydra library and the conf files are in `bayesruls/conf/`.

This library is based on the template [lightning-hydra-template](https://github.com/ashleve/lightning-hydra-template). Please refer to its documentation for further details on the philosophy and use. 

The `scripts` subfolder contains examples on how to run the different functionalities. In the following, we document a few use cases.

#### Generate dataset lmdb files for N-CMAPSS
Make sure to have the downloaded N-CMAPSS files from NASA at `data/ncmapss/`
```
poetry run python -m bayesrul.tasks.build_ds
```
You can overload the options in the conf file  `bayesruls/conf/build_ds.yaml`

#### Hyperparameter search
Example with a HNN:
```
poetry run python -m bayesrul.tasks.hpsearch hpsearch=ncmapss_hnn task_name=hps_hnn
```

#### Model training and test

```
poetry run python -m bayesrul.tasks.train experiment=ncmapss_hnn task_name=train_hnn
```

For instance, if you want to execute 5 runs of the HNN model with different seeds by exploiting hydra multirun facility:

```
poetry run python -m bayesrul.tasks.train experiment=ncmapss_hnn seed=1,2,3,4,5 task_name=train_hnn --multirun
```

For the models you wish to keep, create inside the bayesrul project folder a results subfolder to copy the model checkpoints save in the hydra output folder (e.g. `/home/luis/repos/bayesrul/results/ncmapss/runs/HNN/0/checkpoints/`).

#### Model predictions
To generate the predictions with a model checkpoint:

```
poetry run python -m bayesrul.tasks.predict task_name=predict_hnn ckpt_path=/home/luis/repos/bayesrul/results/ncmapss/runs/HNN/0/checkpoints/epoch_326-step_311631.ckpt
```
To generate the predictions for all checkpoint in the results folder: 

```
poetry run python -m bayesrul.tasks.predict task_name=predict ckpt_path=all
```

#### Model evaluation
```
poetry run python -m bayesrul.tasks.metrics
```
#### Perfomance analysis
Inside the `notebooks` folder, the `plot_results.py` file is a Visual Code notebook with examples on how to analyse model performance from the predictions and metrics generated by `bayesrul.tasks.metrics`.

## References
The main reference to this code is:

```
@misc{https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2302.04730,
  doi = {10.48550/ARXIV.2302.04730},  
  url = {https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.04730},  
  author = {Basora, Luis and Viens, Arthur and Chao, Manuel Arias and Olive, Xavier},  
  title = {A Benchmark on Uncertainty Quantification for Deep Learning Prognostics},  
  publisher = {arXiv},  
  year = {2023},  
}
```
Please read the paper for the full list of references used to implement the methods.
